I was not killing it. We were not making enough progress. Everyone saw that we were stuck, but no one knew how to get unstuck, and I was the one who was supposed to be figuring that out. The CEO was growing more and more upset. He tried getting more involved to help push things in the right direction, but it wasn't working. He let out his frustration at his leadership team, and a lead engineer almost broke down, sharing how the CEO's efforts to make things better had been making things worse, how he wasn't listening to them, and how we needed some fundamental changes to get unstuck.

Seven months before that, I had been hired as an intern --- my first software job out of college, the 30th employee at a company with many of the best engineers I've ever met, and no junior engineers. I had been grinding the hardest I ever had to prove myself, and I had done well -- for the first couple months as an intern and then as a full-timer. I solo-heroed several critical projects for the team, we hit a big milestone and raised a big round 6 months after I joined, and then we started planning for the next year.

I pushed for us building the second version of a project I had built, and the company agreed it was critical -- so much so that it was the company's top priority. I was the obvious choice to lead it, knowing the most about the project and being a good communicator in addition to having horsepower. I was going to lead a team of senior engineers to do it, despite being more than a decade younger and more noobish at coding than many of them. To help me, my manager and several other senior leaders at the company were going to stay in the loop on the project.

Fast forward a month, and things are not going well. I haven't been sleeping enough. In the morning, I notice getting physically stressed out when I open my phone, because most mornings for the past couple weeks I've been responding to stressed-out slack messages from the CTO, who unfortunately-for-me is 3 hours ahead on the east coast and has plenty of things to be stressed about by 7am pt.

And it's not just him -- everyone is stressed, and everyones projects have been going way too slowly. We'd more than doubled in size since I joined, and we had an N^2 communications problem: I drew a diagram of all the people I had to coordinate with to make decisions for my project, and it was over 20.

I had no idea what I was doing as a team lead. We "find projects" for people, but then realize we don't care enough about the projects to get them over the line, leaving the engineers unmotivated and the leaders unhappy with how we've spent our time. I try to continue working on the project while also leading it, but accidentally work on the same things as another engineer, and have to figure out how not to waste work and hurt feelings. The project is bottlenecked by key components from a lead engineer, who is an absolute beast at producing code, but because he is a beast he has now become bottlenecking for 3 projects at once.

But they don't lose faith in me. My manager and the 2 senior leaders most looped in to the project give me lots of advice, both on the project specifcs, and more importantly, on how to navigate goal setting, decision making, and communications. The CTO, CEO, and CPO all get involved in some parts of the project, and although they do push hard on me to think and execute more effectively, they don't doubt my potential to improve enough to get the job done.

Now we've caught up to the beginning. The CEO lets out his frustration at his leadership team, who give back theirs. Things are not good. Everyone is upset. After things finally simmer down, they make plans for how to move forward.

A few weeks later, the CEO calls me in for a meeting. He says he knows that the organization hasn't been supporting me well, and he's sorry about that. He says that he believes in my ability to get the job done, and that he's committed to helping me do what is necessary to do that.

Few things are as powerful as telling someone who's fucked up that you believe in them, recognize that not all of the problems are their fault, and are giving them a chance to prove their worth. I made sure as hell not to make him regret it.

It wasn't without its bumps along the way. The engineering work for the project got on track, but the operations work (which I was also responsible for) was slow to spin up. I had told engineers that were counting on my project when they could expect it by, and I was not on track to hit the goals.

Our team, and the whole organization, took it in stride. We doubled-down on key tasks and bootstrapped things by putting in a bunch of manual effort ourselves. We flew to a vendor we needed more output from, and stayed with them for a week helping them figure out how to get it.

Eventually, we got back on track -- and delivered more than we needed to get the job done. The organization hit another milestone, raised another round, and gave me another raise without me asking for it too.

It's easy in the moment to notice that someone is fucking up, and it's natural to be worried about things working out. Sometimes it's the right call to move someone into a different role or fire them. But many times, you have to actively put your trust into the person to become who they need to be to get the job done. When you do put that trust in others, and give them the support necessary to hit the goals, people will often surprise you by just how much they can get done.
